NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Beijing Tong Ren Tang Chinese Medicine Company Limited                 Annual Report  2024
122
     二零二四年年報 
北京同仁堂國藥有限公司
123
 合併財務報表附註
1 
GENERAL INFORMATION
Beijing Tong Ren Tang Chinese Medicine Company Limited (the “Company”) and its subsidiaries (together the 
“Group”) are engaged in manufacturing, retail and wholesale of Chinese medicine products and healthcare 
products and provision of Chinese medical consultation and treatments. The immediate holding company of 
the Company is Tong Ren Tang Technologies Co. Ltd. (“Tong Ren Tang Technologies”) which is a joint stock 
limited company established in the People’s Republic of China (the “PRC”) and is listed on the Main Board 
of The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited. The intermediate holding company of the Company is Beijing 
Tong Ren Tang Company Limited, (“Tong Ren Tang Ltd.”) which is a joint stock limited company 
incorporated in the PRC and is listed on the Shanghai Stock Exchange. The ultimate holding company of the 
Company is China Beijing Tong Ren Tang Group Co., Ltd. (“Tong Ren Tang Holdings”) which is a company 
incorporated in the PRC.
The Company is a limited liability company incorporated in Hong Kong. The address of its registered office is 
Room 1405–1409, Office Tower, Convention Plaza, 1 Harbour Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong.
The shares of the Company were listed on GEM of the Stock Exchange starting from 7 May 2013 and were 
transferred to be listed on the Main Board of the Stock Exchange starting from 29 May 2018.
These consolidated financial statements have been approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 28 
March 2025.
2 BASIS OF PREPARATION
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with HKFRS Accounting Standards (which 
comprise all Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards, Hong Kong Accounting Standards and 
Interpretations) as issued by the Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public Accountants, and the Hong Kong 
Companies Ordinance. They have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except for financial 
asset at fair value through other comprehensive income, which have been measured at fair value. These 
financial statements are presented in Hong Kong dollars and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand 
except when otherwise indicated.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with HKFRS Accounting Standards requires the use of 
certain critical accounting estimates. It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of 
applying the Group’s accounting policies. The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or 
areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements are set out in 
Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of the Companies and its subsidiaries 
for the year ended 31 December 2024. A subsidiary is an entity (including a structured entity), directly or 
indirectly, controlled by the Company. Control is achieved when the Group is exposed, or has rights, to 
variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its 
power over the investee (i.e., existing rights that give the Group the current ability to direct the relevant 
activities of the investee).
Generally, there is a presumption that a majority of voting rights results in control. When the Company has 
less than a majority of the voting or similar rights of an investee, the Group considers all relevant facts and 
circumstances in assessing whether it has power over an investee, including:
(a) 
the contractual arrangement with the other vote holders of the investee;
(b) 
rights arising from other contractual arrangements; and
(c) 
the Group’s voting rights and potential voting rights.
The financial statements of the subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting period as the Company, 
using consistent accounting policies. The results of subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which the 
Group obtains control, and continue to be consolidated until the date that such control ceases.
Profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive income are attributed to the owners of the parent 
of the Group and to the non-controlling interests, even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a 
deficit balance. All intra-group assets and liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows relating to 
transactions between members of the Group are eliminated in full on consolidation.
1 
一般資料
北京同仁堂國藥有限公司（「本公司」）及其附屬公司（統稱「本集團」）從事中藥產品
和保健品的生產、零售及批發並提供中醫診療。本公司直接控股公司北京同仁堂
科技發展股份有限公司（「同仁堂科技」）為於中華人民共和國（「中國」）成立的股份
有限公司，於香港聯合交易所有限公司主板上市。本公司中間控股公司北京同仁
堂股份有限公司（「同仁堂股份」）為於中國成立的股份有限公司，於上海證券交易
所上市。本公司最終控股公司中國北京同仁堂（集團）有限責任公司（「同仁堂集團
公司」）為於中國註冊成立的公司。
本公司為在香港註冊成立的有限公司，註冊辦事處地址為香港灣仔港灣道1號會
展廣場辦公大樓1405–1409室。
本公司股份於2013年5月7日在聯交所GEM上市，並於2018年5月29日轉至於聯交
所主板上市。
該等合併財務報表已於2025年3月28日獲董事會批准刊發。
2 編製基準
該等財務報表乃根據香港會計師公會頒佈之香港財務報告準則會計準則（包括所
有香港財務報告準則、香港會計準則詮釋）及香港公司條例編製。其乃按歷史成本
慣例編製，惟以公允價值計量且其變動計入其他綜合收益的金融資產按公允價值
計量除外。該等財務報表均以港元呈列，除另有指明外，所有金額均調整至最接
近千元。
編製符合香港財務報告準則會計準則的財務報表需採用若干關鍵會計估計。此亦
需管理人員在應用本集團的會計政策時行使判斷。涉及高度判斷或複雜性的範疇，
或涉及對合併財務報表屬重大假設及估計的範疇載於合併財務報表附註4。
合併基準
合併財務報表包括本公司及其附屬公司截至2024年12月31日止年度之財務報表。
附屬公司指受本公司直接或間接控制的實體（包括結構性實體）。倘本集團透過參
與投資對象業務的浮動回報承擔風險或享有權利，並有能力透過對投資對象的權
力（即賦予本集團現有能力指示投資對象相關活動的既存權利）影響該等回報時，
即取得控制權。
於一般情況下，均存在多數投票權形成控制權的推定。倘本公司擁有少於投資對
象的大多數投票權或類似權利，則本集團於評估其是否擁有對投資對象的權力時
會考慮一切相關事實及情況，包括：
(a) 
與投資對象其他投票權持有人的合約安排；
(b) 
其他合約安排所產生的權利；及
(c) 
本集團的投票權及潛在投票權。
附屬公司的財務報表按與本公司一致的會計政策且以相同的報告期間編製。附屬
公司的業績自本集團取得控制權之日起合併入賬，並持續合併入賬至該控制權終
止之日為止。
損益及其他綜合收益之各組成部分乃歸屬於本集團母公司擁有人及非控股權益，
即使此將導致非控股權益錄得虧損結餘。有關本集團成員公司間交易之所有集團
內資產及負債、權益、收入、開支及現金流量在合併入賬時悉數對銷。

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(CONTINUED)
 合併財務報表附註（續）
Beijing Tong Ren Tang Chinese Medicine Company Limited                 Annual Report  2024
124
     二零二四年年報 
北京同仁堂國藥有限公司
125
2 編製基準（續）
合併基準（續）
倘事實及情況表明上文所列三項控制因素其中一項或多項改變，則本集團會重新
評估其是否仍然控制被投資對象。附屬公司的擁有權權益變動（不涉及失去控制
權）按權益交易方式入賬。
倘本集團失去對附屬公司之控制權，則其終止確認相關資產（包括商譽）、負債、
任何非控股權益及外匯波動儲備，並於損益中確認任何保留投資的公允價值及由
此產生的任何盈餘或虧絀。本集團應佔先前於其他綜合收益確認的部分重新分類
至損益或保留盈利（如適用），並採用如本集團已直接出售相關資產或負債所規定
的相同基準。
(a) 會計政策及披露的變動
本集團已於本年度財務報表首次採納下列經修訂準則：
• 
香港財務報告準則第16號之修訂
售後回租中的租賃責任
• 
香港會計準則第1號之修訂
負債分類為流動或非流動
（2020年修訂）
• 
香港會計準則第1號之修訂
附帶契約之非流動負債
（2022年修訂）
• 
香港會計準則第7號和香港財務
報告準則第7號之修訂
供應商融資安排
採納上述已修訂準則對該等合併財務報表並無任何重大財務影響。
(b) 已頒佈但尚未生效的香港財務報告準則會計準則
本集團並未於該等財務報表內應用下列已頒佈但尚未生效之新訂及經修訂
準則。本集團擬於該等新訂及經修訂準則生效時予以應用（如適用）。
香港財務報告準則第18號
財務報表之呈列及披露(3)
香港財務報告準則第19號
無公開問責制之附屬公司：
披露項目(3)
香港財務報告準則第9號及
香港財務報告準則第7號之修訂
金融工具之分類與計量之修訂(2)
香港財務報告準則第9號及
香港財務報告準則第7號之修訂
涉及依賴自然的電力的合約(2)
香港財務報告準則第10號及
香港會計準則第28號之修訂
投資者與其聯營公司或合營
企業之間之資產出售或注資(4)
香港會計準則第21號之修訂
缺乏可兌換性(1)
香港財務報告準則會計準則之
年度改進 — 第11卷
香港財務報告準則第1號、香港財
務報告準則第7號、香港財務報
告準則第9號、香港財務報告準
則第10號及香港會計準則第7號
之修訂(2)
(1) 
於2025年1月1日或以後開始的年度期間生效
(2) 
於2026年1月1日或以後開始的年度期間生效
(3) 
於2027年1月1日或以後開始的年度╱報告期間生效
(4) 
並無待定強制生效日期但可供採納
2 BASIS OF PREPARATION (CONTINUED)
Basis of consolidation (Continued)
The Group reassesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there 
are changes to one or more of the three elements of control described above. A change in the ownership 
interest of a subsidiary, without a loss of control, is accounted for as an equity transaction.
If the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it derecognises the related assets (including goodwill), liabilities, 
any non-controlling interest and the exchange fluctuation reserve; and recognises the fair value of any 
investment retained and any resulting surplus or deficit in profit or loss. The Group’s share of components 
previously recognised in other comprehensive income is reclassified to profit or loss or retained profits, as 
appropriate, on the same basis as would be required if the Group had directly disposed of the related assets 
or liabilities.
(a) Changes in accounting policies and disclosures
The Group has adopted the following amended standards for the first time for the current year’s 
financial statements:
• 
Amendments to HKFRS 16
Lease Liability in a Sale and Leaseback
• 
Amendments to HKAS 1
Classification of Liabilities as Current or Non-current
(2020 Amendments)
• 
Amendments to HKAS 1
Non-current Liabilities with Covenants (2022 Amendments)
• 
Amendments to HKAS 7 and 
HKFRS 7
Supplier Finance Arrangements
The adoption of the above amended standards did not have any significant financial impact on these 
consolidated financial statements.
(b) Issued but not yet effective HKFRS Accounting Standards
The Group has not applied the following new and amended standards, that have been issued but are 
not yet effective, in these financial statements. The Group intends to apply these new and amended 
standards, if applicable, when they become effective.
HKFRS 18
Presentation and Disclosure in Financial Statements(3)
HKFRS 19
Subsidiaries without Public Accountability: Disclosures(3)
Amendments to HKFRS 9 and 
HKFRS 7
Amendments to the Classification and Measurement of 
Financial Instruments(2)
Amendments to HKFRS 9 and 
HKFRS 7
Contracts Referencing Nature-dependent Electricity(2)
Amendments to HKFRS 10 and 
HKAS 28
Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its 
Associate or Joint Venture(4)
Amendments to HKAS 21
Lack of Exchangeability(1)
Annual Improvements to 
HKFRS Accounting Standards — 
Volume 11
Amendments to HKFRS 1, HKFRS 7, HKFRS 9, HKFRS 10 
and HKAS 7(2)
(1) 
Effective for the annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2025
(2) 
Effective for the annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2026
(3) 
Effective for the annual/reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2027
(4) 
No mandatory effective date yet determined but available for adoption

