--- PDF p85 ---
二零二一年年報
北京同仁堂國藥有限公司
Annual Report 2021
Beijing Tong Ren Tang Chinese Medicine Company Limited
綜合財務報表附註
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
 
 
170
171
1	 GENERAL INFORMATION 
Beijing Tong Ren Tang Chinese Medicine Company Limited (the “Company”) and its subsidiaries (together the 
“Group”) are engaged in manufacturing, retail and wholesale of Chinese medicine products and healthcare products 
and provision of Chinese medical consultation and treatments. The immediate holding company of the Company is 
Tong Ren Tang Technologies Co. Ltd. (“Tong Ren Tang Technologies”) which is a joint stock limited company 
established in the People’s Republic of China (the “PRC”) and is listed on the Main Board of The Stock Exchange of 
Hong Kong Limited. The intermediate holding company of the Company is Beijing Tong Ren Tang Company Limited, 
(“Tong Ren Tang Ltd.”) which is a joint stock limited company incorporated in the PRC and is listed on the Shanghai 
Stock Exchange. The ultimate holding company of the Company is China Beijing Tong Ren Tang Group Co., Ltd. 
(“Tong Ren Tang Holdings”) which is a company incorporated in the PRC. 
The Company is a limited liability company incorporated in Hong Kong. The address of its registered office is Room 
1405–1409, Office Tower, Convention Plaza, 1 Harbour Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong. 
The shares of the Company were listed on GEM of the Stock Exchange starting from 7 May 2013 and were 
transferred to be listed on the Main Board of the Stock Exchange starting from 29 May 2018. 
These consolidated financial statements are presented in Hong Kong dollars (HK$), unless otherwise stated. These 
consolidated financial statements have been approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 9 March 2022. 
2	 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out 
below. These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated. 
(a)	 Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Hong Kong Financial Reporting 
Standards (“HKFRS”) and requirements of the Hong Kong Companies Ordinance Cap. 622. The consolidated 
financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation 
of financial asset at fair value through other comprehensive income, which is carried at fair value. 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with HKFRS requires the use of certain critical 
accounting estimates. It also requires management to exercise its judgment in the process of applying the 
Group’s accounting policies. The areas involving a higher degree of judgment or complexity, or areas where 
assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements are disclosed in Note 4. 
(i)	
Adoption of revised framework and amendments to standards
The Group has adopted the following revised framework and amendments to standards which are 
relevant to the Group’s operations and are mandatory for the financial year beginning on 1 January 
2021: 
Amendments to HKFRS 9, Hong Kong 
  Accounting Standard (“HKAS”) 39, 
  HKFRS 7, HKFRS 4 and HKFRS 16
Interest Rate Benchmark Reform — Phase 2
HKFRS 16 (Amendments)
Covid-19-Related Rent Concessions
The adoption of the above revised framework and amendments to standards did not have any 
significant financial impact on these consolidated financial statements.
1 
一般資料
北京同仁堂國藥有限公司（「本公司」）及其附屬公司（統稱「本集團」）從事中藥產品和保
健品的生產、零售及批發並提供中醫診療。本公司直接控股公司北京同仁堂科技發展
股份有限公司（「同仁堂科技」）為於中華人民共和國（「中國」）成立的股份有限公司，於
香港聯合交易所有限公司主板上市。本公司中間控股公司北京同仁堂股份有限公司
（「同仁堂股份」）為於中國成立的股份有限公司，於上海證券交易所上市。本公司最終
控股公司中國北京同仁堂（集團）有限責任公司（「同仁堂集團公司」）為於中國註冊成立
的公司。
本公司為在香港註冊成立的有限公司，註冊辦事處地址為香港灣仔港灣道1 號會展廣
場辦公大樓1405–1409 室。
本公司股份於2013 年5 月7 日在聯交所GEM 上市，並於2018 年5 月29 日轉至於聯交
所主板上市。
除另有註明外，該等綜合財務報表以港元（「港元」）列賬。該等綜合財務報表已於2022
年3 月9 日獲董事會批准刊發。
2 
主要會計政策概要
編製該等綜合財務報告所採用的主要會計政策如下。除另有註明外，該等政策貫徹應
用於呈列的所有年度。
(a) 編製基準
綜合財務報表已按香港財務報告準則（「香港財務報告準則」）及香港《公司條例》
（第622 章）編製。綜合財務報表根據歷史成本法編製，並已就以公允價值計量
且其變動計入其他綜合收益的金融資產的重估作出修訂。
編製符合香港財務報告準則的財務報表需採用若干關鍵會計估計。此亦需管理
人員在應用本集團的會計政策時行使判斷。涉及高度判斷或複雜性的範疇，或
涉及對綜合財務報表屬重大假設及估計的範疇已於附註4 披露。
(i) 
採納新修訂框架及準則之修訂
本集團所採納與本集團業務相關且於2021 年1 月1 日或之後開始之財政
年度須強制採用的新修訂框架、新解釋及準則之修訂如下：
香港財務報告準則第9號、
 香港會計準則第39號、
 香港財務報告準則第7號、
 香港財務報告準則第4號及
 香港財務報告準則第16號（修訂本）
利率基準改革 — 第2階段
香港財務報告準則第16號（修訂本）
新型冠狀病毒肺炎相關租金減讓
採納上述新修訂框架及準則之修訂對該等綜合財務報表並無任何重大財
務影響。

--- PDF p86 ---
二零二一年年報
北京同仁堂國藥有限公司
Annual Report 2021
Beijing Tong Ren Tang Chinese Medicine Company Limited
 
 
172
173
綜合財務報表附註
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
2	 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
(Continued) 
(a)	 Basis of preparation (Continued) 
(ii)	 New standard, amendments to standards and interpretations which are not 
yet effective 
The following are new standard, amendments to standards and interpretations that have been published 
and are mandatory for the Group’s accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2022 or later 
periods, but have not been early adopted by the Group.
Annual improvement project 
  (Amendments)
Annual Improvements to HKFRSs 2018–2020 (1)
HKFRS 3, HKAS 16 and HKAS 37 
  (Amendments)
Narrow-scope amendments (1)
Amendments to Accounting Guideline 5
Merger Accounting for Common Control Combinations (1)
Hong Kong Interpretation 5 (2020)
Presentation of Financial Statements — Classification 
  by the Borrower of a Term Loan that Contains a 
  Repayment on Demand Clause (2)
HKAS 1 (Amendments)
Classification of Liabilities as Current or Non-current (2)
HKFRS 17 (New Standard)
Insurance Contracts (2)
HKAS 1 and HKFRS Practice Statement 2 
  (Amendments)
Disclosure of Accounting Policies (2)
HKAS 8 (Amendments)
Definition of Accounting Estimates (2)
HKAS 12 (Amendments)
Deferred Tax related to Assets and Liabilities arising 
  from a Single Transaction (2)
HKFRS 10 and HKAS 28 (Amendments)
Sales or Contribution of Assets between an Investor 
  and its Associate or Joint Venture (3)
(1)	
Effective for the accounting period beginning on or after 1 January 2022
(2)	
Effective for the accounting period beginning on or after 1 January 2023 
(3)	
Effective date to be determined 
The Group will apply the above new standard, amendments to standards and interpretations when they 
become effective.
(b)	 Subsidiaries 
(i)	
Consolidation 
A subsidiary is an entity (including a structured entity) over which the Group has control. The Group 
controls an entity where the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement 
with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power to direct the activities of the 
entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group. 
They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases. 
Business combinations 
Except for business combination under common control, the Group applies the acquisition method to 
account for business combinations. The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary is 
the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred to the former owners of the acquiree and 
the equity interests issued by the Group. The consideration transferred also includes the fair value of 
any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement, and fair value of any 
pre-existing equity interest in the subsidiary. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent 
liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition 
date. 
2 
主要會計政策概要（續）
(a) 編製基準（續）
(ii) 尚未生效的新訂準則，準則之修訂及解釋
下列新訂準則，準則之修訂及解釋與本集團於2022 年1 月1 日或之後開
始的會計期或較後期間強制實行，惟本集團並無提早採納。
年度改進計劃（修訂本）
香港財務報告準則2018–2020年
 的年度改進(1)
香港財務報告準則第3號、
 香港會計準則第16號及
 第37號（修訂本）
小範圍修訂(1)
會計指引5（修訂本）
共同控制的合併會計法(1)
香港詮釋第5號（二零二零年）
財務報表之呈列 — 借款人對包含隨時
 要求償還條文之有期貸款之分類(2)
香港會計準則第1號（修訂本）
負債分類為流動或非流動(2)
香港財務報告準則第17號
 （新準則）
保險合約(2)
香港會計準則第1號及
 香港財務報告準則實務聲明
 第2號（修訂本）
會計政策披露(2)
香港會計準則第8號（修訂本）
會計估計的定義(2)
香港會計準則第12號（修訂本）與單一交易所產生之資產及負債有關
 的遞延所得稅(2)
香港財務報告準則第10號
 及香港會計準則第28號
 （修訂本）
與合資或關聯企業間之資產
 出售或投入(3)
(1) 
於2022 年1 月1 日或以後開始的會計期間生效
(2) 
於2023 年1 月1 日或以後開始的會計期間生效
(3) 
生效日期待定
當上述新訂準則，準則之修訂及解釋生效時，本集團將應用此等準則及
準則之修訂。
(b) 附屬公司
(i) 
合併
附屬公司為本集團對其有控制權的實體（包括結構實體）。當本集團具有
承擔或享有參與有關實體所得之可變回報的風險或權利，並能透過其在
該實體的權力影響該等回報，則本集團對該實體具有控制權。附屬公司
自控制權轉至本集團當日起合併計算，並自該控制權終止當日起不再合
併計算。
業務合併
除共同控制下的業務合併外，收購法用作本集團業務合併的入賬方法。
就收購附屬公司所轉讓的代價為所轉讓資產、被收購方前擁有者產生的
負債及本集團所發行股權的公允價值。所轉讓的代價包括或有代價安排
產生的任何資產或負債的公允價值。業務合併中所收購可識別資產與所
承擔負債及或有負債，初步以彼等於收購日期的公允價值計量以及及子
公司中任何現有股權的公允價值。

