BEIJING TONG REN TANG CHINESE MEDICINE COMPANY LIMITED
Annual Report  2025
8
北京同仁堂國藥有限公司
二零二五年年報
9
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
主席獻辭
UNITE OUR EFFORTS AND 
OVERCOME DIFFICULTIES  
TO LAY A SOLID FOUNDATION
凝心聚力 
攻堅築基
Yan Han
嚴 晗
Chairman 主席
In 2025, the global economic and trade landscape has been characterized by mounting complexity 
and uncertainty. While the global financial environment was gradually easing, intensifying geopolitical 
tensions, the global trading system is undergoing profound turbulence. While the global economy 
maintains growth resilience, its growth rate is decelerating. The clear divergence of demand 
structures further highlighted the imbalances in economic development. Against this landscape, the 
Group adheres to our founding aspiration of “Nurturing kindness and virtue, Preserving tranquility 
and wellness”, and persistently advances the internationalization of TCM with dedication to quality 
and innovation to open up new horizons.
COMPOSING A NEW CHAPTER OF DEVELOPMENT WITH 
DILIGENT CULTIVATION
Enhancing Quality and Efficiency by Innovation, 
Strengthening Our Brand for International Growth
During the Year, the Group focused on its core businesses, deepening product research and 
development and patent deployment underpinned by stringent quality control and cultivation of new 
productive forces. Multiple new products were launched and invention patents were approved, which 
continuously enriched our product portfolio. In addition, we strengthened industry — academia — 
research collaboration by establishing platforms with leading universities and international joint 
laboratories to advance the modernization of classic prescriptions and the commercialization of 
scientific research achievements. In market expansion, the Group consolidated its presence in Hong 
Kong and Macau while extending into overseas markets including Oceania, South America, and 
ASEAN. The Group refined its global sales network through proprietary brand launches, product 
registrations and international collaborations. Furthermore, the Group strengthened brand promotion 
and philanthropic initiatives, participated in diverse international exhibitions and cultural exchanges to 
elevate its global influence. The Group garnered multiple industry accolades, which injected robust 
momentum into high-quality development and the internationalization of TCM.
BUILDING A LEGACY OF ENDURING PROSPERITY WITH 
BENEVOLENCE TO SERVE HUMANITY
Empowering Sustainable Development with Responsibilities and Steadfast Actions
As a long-established enterprise in the PRC’s TCM industry, the Group adheres to its founding 
aspiration of “Promoting people’s health with noble morality and kindness”. We regard the service of 
human health as our mission, uphold responsibility in carrying forward the essence of TCM culture, 
and deepen our brand’s heritage through benevolent practices, thereby continuously elevate our 
brand influence and societal reputation. Additionally, we solidify the foundation for sustainable 
development and achieve a synergistic growth in commercial value and social value by deeply 
integrating environmental, social, and governance principles into our strategic planning and 
operational processes, and continuously refining our governance framework.
2025年，全球經濟貿易格局複雜性與不確定性持續
交織。儘管全球金融環境逐步寬鬆，但地緣政治衝突持
續深化，全球貿易體系正經歷深刻動盪。全球經濟總體維持
增長韌性但增速放緩，需求結構分化明顯，經濟發展的不平衡性
進一步凸顯。面對此形勢，本集團堅守「同修仁德，濟世養生」初
心，以匠心築品質，以創新拓格局，持續推進中醫藥國際化進程。
精耕細作譜寫發展新篇
創新賦能提質增效，品牌引領國際深耕
於本年度內，本集團聚焦核心業務，以嚴苛質量管控與新質生產
力培育為根基，深化品種研發與專利佈局，多款新產品上市及發
明專利獲批，持續豐富產品矩陣。同時深化產學研協同，與多所
高校及國際聯合實驗室共建平台，推動經典名方現代化與科研成
果轉化。在市場佈局上，鞏固港澳市場並拓展大洋洲、南美洲、東
盟等海外市場，通過專屬品牌落地、產品註冊與國際合作，完善
全球銷售網絡；同步加強品牌宣傳與公益踐行，參與多類國際展
會與文化交流，提升品牌國際影響力並屢獲行業殊榮，為高質量
發展與中醫藥國際化注入強勁動能。
仁心濟世基業長青
履責篤行賦能可持續發展
作為中國中藥行業老字號，本集團始終恪守「同修仁德、濟世養生」
之初心，以服務人類健康為己任，以責任擔當傳承中醫藥文化精
髓，以仁德踐行厚植品牌底蘊，持續提升品牌影響力與社會美譽
度。同時，將環境、社會與管治理念深度融入戰略佈局與經營全
流程，不斷優化治理體系，夯實可持續發展根基，實現商業價值
與社會價值的協同共生。
